# Botnet-Detection
2023 Honours Project
The proliferation of IoT devices in smart home networks, coupled with the lack of robust security controls, presents an opportunity for attackers to exploit vulnerabilities and gain unauthorised access. Compromised devices are known as bots and can be coalesced into a network known as Botnets. The bots are under the control of the master bot and can continue to infect connected devices in the IoT network, as well as execute commands under the command of the controller. This research explores the intricacies of botnet detection in smart home environments. Supervised learning models K-Nearest Neighbour,  Decision Tree, Random Forest, and ensemble learning model, AdaBoost, are trained and tested on multiple experiments and compared to evaluate their efficacies. Multiple experiments are conducted in this project to observe the issue of data imbalance. Using a widely recognised IoT Dataset along with Khizer Naeem’s open-source code, this study aimed to compare the outcomes of the models on both balanced and imbalanced datasets. Findings showed that AdaBoost and Random Forest achieved similar results in all experiments of the project with an average of 99% accuracy and precision, as well as minimal false predictions. In addition to this, the balanced dataset is seen to achieve a slightly better learning curve than an imbalanced dataset, emphasising that models tend to yield superior results when trained on balanced datasets.

NOTE: The code was retrieved from a public GitHub repository by Khizer Naeem:
kxr. (2021, January 6). khizer-ms-thesis-ml [Source code]. GitHub. https://github.com/kxr/khizer-ms-thesis-ml 
